# Introduction and Installation

Rust is a systems programming language which has a wide range of applications, ranging
from it's using in frontend tecnologies such as turbo and Nextjs current's compiler,
backend services for microservices and serverless functions and as well making it
to the linux kernel.

Rust has been the most loved language from the stackoverflow survey, 5 years in a row.
It is a language that ensures safety of your program at every point in time.

#### Some key features of Rust

- No garbage collector
- Has a strict compiler that ensures all safety measures are checked.
- Support concurrency and parrallelism

#### Some popular frameworks in the various niches

- Frontend: Yew, Iced, Warp
- Backend: Actix, Axum, Rocket - Servers with the least resource consuumption on AWS
- Compilers: Turbo

## Installation

We are going to be using rustup to download and install our rust compiler.
The compiler enables us build and compile our code. Rust is a compiled language.
Run the following command on your terminal:

`$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh`

We need to restart of our terminal and run the following command to verify that rust has been installed.

`rustc --version` or `rustc --V`

You should be able to see the version number, commit hash, and commit date for
the latest stable version that has been released in the following format:

`rustc a.b.c (commit_id yyyy-mm-dd)`

### To Update Rust compiler

Run `$ rustup update`

### To Uninstall Rust compiler

Run `$ rustup self uninstall`

## Running our first program

- Create a folder with a file in it and named main.rs
- Paste the code below:

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

- Save the file and open the terminal in the root folder we just created and run

```rust
rustc main.rs
```

- We get back a file which contains the compiled executable code after running the above command. For mac users you would see a `main` file while for windows user an executable will be created `main.exe`;

- Run `./main` or `./main.exe` -(windows).
- The expected output is `Hello, world`
- 
